docs/user-guide/finops/configurations.md, before:

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Configurations 

The **Configurations** page lets you manage configurations for Cost Visibility in Devtron. You can:

   * Set the default currency for all cost-related data.
   * Enable or disable cost tracking for your connected clusters.

---

## Currency (Default)

You can select your preferred currency as default. 

---

## Enable Cost Tracking

To enable cost visibility for a cluster, follow the below steps:

1. Choose your preferred cluster, and click on **Off/Enabled**. An **Edit Cluster** modal window will open.

2. Enable the toggle next to **Enable cost tracking**.

3. Select the cloud provider in which you have created your cluster.

4. Based on the cloud provider you need to do the following configurations:

<Tabs>

<TabItem label="GCP" value="GCP">

To enable cost visibility for Google Cloud in Devtron, you need to generate an API key and use it to connect Devtron with your GCP account.

1. Generate the API key using standard [Google Cloud API key documentation](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/api-keys#gcloud).

2. Now go back to the **Edit cluster** modal window, and enter the API key in the **Cloud Provider API Key** field.

:::info 
If you face any issues while enabling or configuring the **Cost Visibility** module, reach out to [Devtron Support Team](mailto:enterprise@devtron.ai) for assistance.

:::

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Azure" value="Azure"> 

To enable cost visibility for your Azure clusters in Devtron, you need to allow Devtron to access your billing data securely. This requires two steps:
   1. Create a custom role in Azure with billing access.
   2. Create a service principal (an identity) that Devtron can use to fetch cost details.

 #### Step 1: Creating Custom Role

 1. Open a text editor and copy the following JSON:

 ```json
{
   "Name": "OpenCostRole",
   "IsCustom": true,
   "Description": "Rate Card query role",
   "Actions": [
       "Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/vmSizes/read",
       "Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions/locations/read",
       "Microsoft.Resources/providers/read",
       "Microsoft.ContainerService/containerServices/read",
       "Microsoft.Commerce/RateCard/read"
   ],
   "AssignableScopes": [
       "/subscriptions/YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_ID"
   ]
}
 ```

2. Replace `YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` with your actual subscription ID.

3. Save the file as `myrole.json`.

4. Run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
az role definition create --verbose --role-definition @myrole.json
```

This creates a role called `OpenCostRole` with just enough access to read pricing information.

#### Step 2: Create a Service Principal

1. Run the command below, again replacing `YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` with your subscription ID:

```bash
az ad sp create-for-rbac \
  --name "OpenCostAccess" \
  --role "OpenCostRole" \
  --scope "/subscriptions/YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_ID" \
  --output json
```

2. You’ll get an output like this:

```json
{
   "appId": "1d9b1532-abe4-4e08-b172-adfa5384da1",
   "displayName": "OpenCostAccess",
   "password": "3XxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxX3",
   "tenant": "aee9b2ed-7ecc-4cb2-bfed-60d71c0e957"
}
```

3. Note this information as you need to enter this in Devtron.

#### Step 3: Enter Details in Devtron

Now go back to the **Edit cluster** modal window, and fill the following fields:

| **Field**          | **Value to Provide**            |
|---------------------|---------------------------------|
| Subscription ID     | Your Azure subscription ID      |
| App ID              | Value of `appId` from the output |
| Display Name        | Value of `displayName` from the output|
| Password            | Value of `password` from the output |
| Tenant              | Value of `tenant` from the output |
| Billing Account     | Optional (fill if available)    |
| Offer ID            | Optional (fill if available)    |

:::info 
If you face any issues while enabling or configuring the **Cost Visibility** module, reach out to [Devtron Support Team](mailto:enterprise@devtron.ai) for assistance.

:::

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="AWS" value="AWS"> 

If you have spot node instances in your AWS cluster, then only you need to do the below additional configurations for your AWS cluster, else you can skip the below configurations

#### Step 1: Set up a Spot Instance Data Feed

1. Create an S3 bucket

2. Assign full access permissions to the AWS Spot Data Feed service

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Service": "spot.amazonaws.com"
      },
      "Action": "*",
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::devtron-spot-feed/*"
    },
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Service": "spot.amazonaws.com"
      },
      "Action": "*",
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::devtron-spot-feed"
    }
  ]
}
```

3. Run the following command to subscribe to the data feed using the AWS CLI

```bash
aws ec2 create-spot-datafeed-subscription \
  --bucket devtron-spot-feed --prefix cost
```
:::warning Note 
You can subscribe to the Spot Data Feed for only one S3 bucket at a time. Running the command again updates the feed to the latest bucket.
:::


#### Step 2: Create an IAM Role or Use Access Keys

You can connect Devtron to AWS cost data using either of the following methods:

#### IAM Role (Recommended)

Create a Web Identity IAM role for your EKS/EC2 cluster with permissions to access the Spot Data Feed bucket. Attach the following policy (replace CHANGE-ME with your bucket name)

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Action": [
        "s3:ListAllMyBuckets",
        "s3:ListBucket",
        "s3:Get*"
      ],
      "Resource": [
        "arn:aws:s3:::CHANGE-ME",
        "arn:aws:s3:::CHANGE-ME/*"
      ],
      "Effect": "Allow"
    }
  ]
}

```

#### Access Keys (Alternative)

Provide an Access Key and Secret Key with permissions `s3:ListBucket` and `s3:GetObject` for the Spot Data Feed bucket.

#### Step 3: Configure in Devtron

Now go back to the **Edit cluster** modal window, and fill the following fields:

| **Field**            | **Description**                                                                  |
|-----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Spot Data Bucket      | Name of the S3 bucket storing Spot Instance Data Feed                           |
| Spot Data Region      | AWS region of the Spot Data Feed                                                |
| Spot Data Prefix      | Prefix (if any) used for the Spot Data Feed                                     |
| Project ID            | Your AWS Account ID                                                             |
| Access Key            | (Optional) AWS Access Key with S3 read permissions                              |
| Secret Access Key     | (Optional) AWS Secret Access Key with S3 read permissions                       |
| IAM Role              | (Recommended) IAM role ARN assigned to the EKS/EC2 cluster for bucket access    |

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

5. Enter Prometheus endpoint of your cluster. Refer [Fetching Prometheus Endpoint](#fetching-prometheus-endpoint) to learn more.

:::warning 
Prometheus endpoint should be publicly exposed for the cost visibility to work.

:::

6. Click **Save**, cost visibility will be enabled for the cluster.

:::info Note
After enabling cost visibility, you will see your cluster information after 1 hour in cost visibility module.
:::

---

## Fetching Prometheus Endpoint

:::warning Note 
Ensure [GitOps](../global-configurations/gitops.md) is configured before deploying Prometheus. If not, Prometheus will default to being deployed via Helm.
:::

### Installing Prometheus
   
1. Go to the **Chart Store** and search for `prometheus`. Use the Prometheus community's `kube-prometheus-stack` chart to deploy Prometheus.

    ![Figure 1: Chart Store](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/creating-application/app-metrics/app2.jpg)

2. After selecting the chart, configure these values as needed before deployment.

    ```yaml
    kube-state-metrics: 
        metricLabelsAllowlist:   
        - pods=[*]
    ```

    <br />

    ```yaml
    serviceMonitorSelectorNilUsesHelmValues: false
    podMonitorSelectorNilUsesHelmValues: false
    ```

    <br />

    Search for the above parameters, and update them as shown (or customize as needed).

    ![Figure 2a: Prometheus Chart Configuration](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/creating-application/app-metrics/app3.jpg)

    ![Figure 2b: Prometheus Chart Configuration (cont.)](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/creating-application/app-metrics/app-metrics-config.jpg)

3. Enable `upgradeJob` parameter to install CRDs:

    Since Helm does not automatically apply CRDs, you need to enable the `upgradeJob` parameter in the Helm chart to ensure CRDs are applied before deploying Prometheus.
   
    In the Prometheus Helm chart settings, locate the `upgradeJob` parameter and set it to `true` if it is `false`.
      
    ![Figure 3: upgradeJob Parameter](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/creating-application/app-metrics/app-new2.jpg)
      
4. After enabling the parameter, click **Deploy Chart**.

:::warning Common Pitfall: Prometheus Deployment Timeout due to Failed CRDs
While deploying `kube-prometheus-stack` chart, the deployment status may show as **Timed out**, and some CustomResourceDefinitions (CRDs) may appear as **Failed**.

To solve it, refer [Troubleshoot Issues](../creating-application/app-metrics.md#troubleshoot-issues)
:::

5. After the chart deployed successfully, you need to make the Prometheus endpoint exposed publicly.

:::info 
If you face any issues while enabling or configuring the **Cost Visibility** module, please contact the [Devtron Support Team](mailto:support@devtron.ai) for assistance.
:::

<!-- #### Set Up Prometheus Endpoint

:::warning Who Can Perform This Action?
Only super admin users can set up Prometheus endpoint in a cluster.

:::
   
1. Once Prometheus is installed, go to its **App Details** and navigate to **Networking** → **Service** in the K8s resources. Expand the Prometheus server service to see the endpoints. 

2. Copy the URL of the `kube-prometheus` service as shown in the image below.

    ![Figure 4: Prometheus Service](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/creating-application/app-metrics/app4.jpg)

3. Now enter the Prometheus endpoint:
    1. Paste the copied URL into the Prometheus endpoint field, ensuring it includes `http://`
    2. Click **Update Cluster** to save the changes. -->

Commit message:

Cost Visibility Pending Changes from GitBook

docs/user-guide/finops/configurations.md, after:

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Configurations 

The **Configurations** page lets you manage configurations for Cost Visibility in Devtron. You can:

   * Set the default currency for all cost-related data.
   * Enable or disable cost tracking for your connected clusters.

---

## Currency (Default)

You can select your preferred currency as default. 

---

## Enable Cost Tracking

To enable cost visibility for a cluster, follow the below steps:

1. Choose your preferred cluster, and click on **Off/Enabled**. An **Edit Cluster** modal window will open.

2. Enable the toggle next to **Enable cost tracking**.

3. Select the cloud provider in which you have created your cluster.

4. Based on the cloud provider you need to do the following configurations:

<Tabs>

<TabItem label="GCP" value="GCP">

### Enable Cost Visibility for GCP

To enable cost visibility for Google Cloud in Devtron, you need to generate an API key and use it to connect Devtron with your GCP account.

1. Generate the API key using standard [Google Cloud API key documentation](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/api-keys#gcloud).

2. Now go back to the **Edit cluster** modal window, and enter the API key in the **Cloud Provider API Key** field.

:::info 
If you face any issues while enabling or configuring the **Cost Visibility** module, reach out to [Devtron Support Team](mailto:enterprise@devtron.ai) for assistance.

:::

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Azure" value="Azure"> 

### Enable Cost Visibility for Azure

To enable cost visibility for your Azure clusters in Devtron, you need to allow Devtron to access your billing data securely. This requires two steps:
   1. Create a custom role in Azure with billing access.
   2. Create a service principal (an identity) that Devtron can use to fetch cost details.

 #### Step 1: Creating Custom Role

 1. Open a text editor and copy the following JSON:

 ```json
{
   "Name": "OpenCostRole",
   "IsCustom": true,
   "Description": "Rate Card query role",
   "Actions": [
       "Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/vmSizes/read",
       "Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions/locations/read",
       "Microsoft.Resources/providers/read",
       "Microsoft.ContainerService/containerServices/read",
       "Microsoft.Commerce/RateCard/read"
   ],
   "AssignableScopes": [
       "/subscriptions/YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_ID"
   ]
}
 ```

2. Replace `YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` with your actual subscription ID.

3. Save the file as `myrole.json`.

4. Run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
az role definition create --verbose --role-definition @myrole.json
```

This creates a role called `OpenCostRole` with just enough access to read pricing information.

#### Step 2: Create a Service Principal

1. Run the command below, again replacing `YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` with your subscription ID:

```bash
az ad sp create-for-rbac \
  --name "OpenCostAccess" \
  --role "OpenCostRole" \
  --scope "/subscriptions/YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_ID" \
  --output json
```

2. You’ll get an output like this:

```json
{
   "appId": "1d9b1532-abe4-4e08-b172-adfa5384da1",
   "displayName": "OpenCostAccess",
   "password": "3XxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxX3",
   "tenant": "aee9b2ed-7ecc-4cb2-bfed-60d71c0e957"
}
```

3. Note this information as you need to enter this in Devtron.

#### Step 3: Enter Details in Devtron

Now go back to the **Edit cluster** modal window, and fill the following fields:

| **Field**          | **Value to Provide**            |
|---------------------|---------------------------------|
| Subscription ID     | Your Azure subscription ID      |
| App ID              | Value of `appId` from the output |
| Display Name        | Value of `displayName` from the output|
| Password            | Value of `password` from the output |
| Tenant              | Value of `tenant` from the output |
| Billing Account     | Optional (fill if available)    |
| Offer ID            | Optional (fill if available)    |

:::info 
If you face any issues while enabling or configuring the **Cost Visibility** module, reach out to [Devtron Support Team](mailto:enterprise@devtron.ai) for assistance.

:::

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="AWS" value="AWS"> 

### Enable Cost Visibility for AWS

If you have spot node instances in your AWS cluster, then only you need to do the below additional configurations for your AWS cluster, else you can skip the below configurations

#### Step 1: Set up a Spot Instance Data Feed

1. Create an S3 bucket

2. Assign full access permissions to the AWS Spot Data Feed service

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Service": "spot.amazonaws.com"
      },
      "Action": "*",
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::devtron-spot-feed/*"
    },
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Service": "spot.amazonaws.com"
      },
      "Action": "*",
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::devtron-spot-feed"
    }
  ]
}
```

3. Run the following command to subscribe to the data feed using the AWS CLI

```bash
aws ec2 create-spot-datafeed-subscription \
  --bucket devtron-spot-feed --prefix cost
```
:::warning Note 
You can subscribe to the Spot Data Feed for only one S3 bucket at a time. Running the command again updates the feed to the latest bucket.
:::


#### Step 2: Create an IAM Role or Use Access Keys

You can connect Devtron to AWS cost data using either of the following methods:

#### IAM Role (Recommended)

Create a Web Identity IAM role for your EKS/EC2 cluster with permissions to access the Spot Data Feed bucket. Attach the following policy (replace CHANGE-ME with your bucket name)

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Action": [
        "s3:ListAllMyBuckets",
        "s3:ListBucket",
        "s3:Get*"
      ],
      "Resource": [
        "arn:aws:s3:::CHANGE-ME",
        "arn:aws:s3:::CHANGE-ME/*"
      ],
      "Effect": "Allow"
    }
  ]
}

```

#### Access Keys (Alternative)

Provide an Access Key and Secret Key with permissions `s3:ListBucket` and `s3:GetObject` for the Spot Data Feed bucket.

#### Step 3: Configure in Devtron

Now go back to the **Edit cluster** modal window, and fill the following fields:

| **Field**            | **Description**                                                                  |
|-----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Spot Data Bucket      | Name of the S3 bucket storing Spot Instance Data Feed                           |
| Spot Data Region      | AWS region of the Spot Data Feed                                                |
| Spot Data Prefix      | Prefix (if any) used for the Spot Data Feed                                     |
| Project ID            | Your AWS Account ID                                                             |
| Access Key            | (Optional) AWS Access Key with S3 read permissions                              |
| Secret Access Key     | (Optional) AWS Secret Access Key with S3 read permissions                       |
| IAM Role              | (Recommended) IAM role ARN assigned to the EKS/EC2 cluster for bucket access    |

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

5. Enter Prometheus endpoint of your cluster. Refer [Fetching Prometheus Endpoint](#fetching-prometheus-endpoint) to learn more.

:::warning 
Prometheus endpoint should be publicly exposed for the cost visibility to work.

:::

6. Click **Save**, cost visibility will be enabled for the cluster.

:::info Note
After enabling cost visibility, you will see your cluster information after 1 hour in cost visibility module.
:::

---

## Fetching Prometheus Endpoint

:::warning Note 
Ensure [GitOps](../global-configurations/gitops.md) is configured before deploying Prometheus. If not, Prometheus will default to being deployed via Helm.
:::

### Installing Prometheus
   
1. Go to the **Chart Store** and search for `prometheus`. Use the Prometheus community's `kube-prometheus-stack` chart to deploy Prometheus.

    ![Figure 1: Chart Store](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/creating-application/app-metrics/app2.jpg)

2. After selecting the chart, configure these values as needed before deployment.

    ```yaml
    kube-state-metrics: 
        metricLabelsAllowlist:   
        - pods=[*]
    ```

    <br />

    ```yaml
    serviceMonitorSelectorNilUsesHelmValues: false
    podMonitorSelectorNilUsesHelmValues: false
    ```

    <br />

    Search for the above parameters, and update them as shown (or customize as needed).

    ![Figure 2a: Prometheus Chart Configuration](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/creating-application/app-metrics/app3.jpg)

    ![Figure 2b: Prometheus Chart Configuration (cont.)](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/creating-application/app-metrics/app-metrics-config.jpg)

3. Enable `upgradeJob` parameter to install CRDs:

    Since Helm does not automatically apply CRDs, you need to enable the `upgradeJob` parameter in the Helm chart to ensure CRDs are applied before deploying Prometheus.
   
    In the Prometheus Helm chart settings, locate the `upgradeJob` parameter and set it to `true` if it is `false`.
      
    ![Figure 3: upgradeJob Parameter](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/creating-application/app-metrics/app-new2.jpg)
      
4. After enabling the parameter, click **Deploy Chart**.

  While deploying `kube-prometheus-stack` chart, the deployment status may show as **Timed out**, and some CustomResourceDefinitions (CRDs) may appear as **Failed**. This behavior is expected and does not require any action from you.

  ![Figure 4a: Deployment Timed Out](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/creating-application/app-metrics/app-metrics-deployment-timed-out-v2.jpg)

  ![Figure 4b: CRDs Failed](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/creating-application/app-metrics/app-metrics-crds-failed.jpg)

  This occurs because certain Prometheus CRDs are large in size, which can lead to temporary sync issues during deployment, but, this does not impact the functionality of the Prometheus components.

  ArgoCD handles such cases automatically and the `kube-prometheus-stack` will continue to function as expected.

5. After the chart deployed successfully, you need to make the Prometheus endpoint exposed publicly.

:::info 
If you face any issues while enabling or configuring the **Cost Visibility** module, please contact the [Devtron Support Team](mailto:enterprise@devtron.ai) for assistance.
:::

<!-- #### Set Up Prometheus Endpoint

:::warning Who Can Perform This Action?
Only super admin users can set up Prometheus endpoint in a cluster.

:::
   
1. Once Prometheus is installed, go to its **App Details** and navigate to **Networking** → **Service** in the K8s resources. Expand the Prometheus server service to see the endpoints. 

2. Copy the URL of the `kube-prometheus` service as shown in the image below.

    ![Figure 4: Prometheus Service](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/creating-application/app-metrics/app4.jpg)

3. Now enter the Prometheus endpoint:
    1. Paste the copied URL into the Prometheus endpoint field, ensuring it includes `http://`
    2. Click **Update Cluster** to save the changes. -->
